# Kubernetes Steering Committee Elections 

This document outlines the process, for steering committee elections.  

**NOTE:** This document is stale and requires reevaluation prior to next election cycle. 

## Elections

Special note: The bootstrap committee pledges to recuse itself from any direct
election activities while they serve as continuity members. Members of the
bootstrap committee will refrain from endorsing or otherwise advocating for any
candidate (with the exception that the members of the bootstrap committee may
vote in the elections, and may choose to run in the 2019 election).

### Members of Standing

Initial standing in the Kubernetes community will be defined by the union of:
* SIG leads
* Approvers and reviewers in any Kubernetes owned repositories
* Anyone with write access to a Kubernetes owned repository

The bootstrap committee *explicitly* believes that this heuristic will be
inaccurate and not represent the entire community. An exception form will be
provided for people who have contributed to the project but may not meet these
criteria. Exception applications will be approved by the bootstrap committee
will vote on this eligibility, with simple majority determining eligibility.
The exception process will be used as data points for refining the criteria for
the future.

Within its first year, the Steering Committee will redefine these criteria
around a more robust idea of community membership.

### Eligibility for candidacy

Anyone may nominate either themselves or someone else to be a candidate in the
election. To be ratified as a candidate, the nominee must accept the nomination
and three Members of Standing (including the nominator, if she/he has standing)
from three different employers, must endorse the nomination.  

Nominators are free to nominate as many people as they wish to. Members of
Standing may endorse multiple nominees, but we expect endorsements to be in
good faith.  If this turns out to be a problem, this will be reconsidered.

### Eligibility for voting

All Members of Standing are eligible to vote for the steering committee
members. 

### Election process

Elections will be held using time-limited Condorcet ranking on CIVS. The top
vote getters will be elected to the respective positions. 

### Maximal representation

To encourage diversity there will be a maximum of one-third representation on
the Steering Committee from any one company at any time. If the results of an
election result in greater than 1/3 representation, the lowest vote getters
from any particular company will be removed until representation on the
committee is less than one-third.

If percentages shift because of job changes, acquisitions, or other events,
sufficient members of the committee must resign until max one-third
representation is achieved. If it is impossible to find sufficient members to
resign, the entire company’s representation will be removed and new special
elections held. In the event of a question of company membership (for example
evaluating independence of corporate subsidiaries) a majority of all
non-involved Steering Committee members will decide. 

### Initial Election

Because of the need to bootstrap a staggered election cycle, some of the
initial committee members will only serve a single year term. These three
people will be the lowest vote getters from the top six in the initial
election.

The bootstrap committee will operate the election and circulate a timeline for
nominations, and the vote.

### Vacancies

In the event of a resignation or other loss of a steering committee member, the
candidate with the next most votes from the previous election will be offered
the seat.  This process will continue until the seat is filled.  In case this
fails to fill the seat, a special election for that position will be held as
soon as possible. The same group of people as described in “eligibility for
voting” will vote in the special election. A committee member elected in a
special election will serve out the remainder of the term for the person they
are replacing, regardless of the length of that remainder. If a continuity
member resigns or otherwise is lost from the Committee, that position will not
be filled.

### Limiting Corporate Campaigning

To reduce size of company advantages, candidates may not use their companies
internal or external brand to campaign.  Their employers cannot solicit votes
on their behalf or sponsor candidates from partner organizations.  Simply put,
elections highlight individuals outside of their corporate role and should be
treated as “brand free” activities.

## Refactoring or reforming the steering committee

At any time the steering committee may vote, via super majority (greater than
two-thirds of votes), to rewrite or remove any part of this charter. Beyond
small tweaks, this should be used sparingly, if ever, and in the presence of
clear failures of the process. We explicitly do not allocate a role for the
broader community in reformulating governance, we believe that in such a case
the community will “vote with their feet” by either leaving or forking the
project.

## Emeritus Term

Members of the steering committee will graduate to becoming Emeritus members of
the steering committee.